# 0. INTRODUCTION

In his landmark text, Understanding Media, Marshall McLuhan famously wrote that “the medium is the message.” Indeed, the advent of new communications and media technologies has, over time, drastically affected the ways in which we are capable of hearing, viewing, or even reading different material. [Examples: Printing press; film; television.]

In that spirit, this book approaches the study of media technologies and theories from the perspective of the place where we most often experience them today: the Internet. In this day and age, we cannot talk about media content without talking about where we actually encounter it — which, for most things, is online. Although photography, video, audio, and animation have been around for over a century now, we experience them in a fundamentally different way when we see them in a web browser, versus when we see them in other contexts. The Internet also allows us to harness these technologies and expand on their traditional uses — creating work that not only allows a viewer to see and hear the content passively, but to actively engage with and manipulate it as well.

Each section of this book serves two purposes. The first is to provide a historical and theoretical context of a variety of media, each made possible through the advancement of new technologies and creation processes. We will also discuss the connection between these technologies to the Internet, and how the Web browser has fundamentally altered the conventions and expectations of how audiences relate to media today. The second is to allow readers to become familiar with using these technologies themselves. There are interactive tutorials in each section, which are designed to provide a simple platform to experiment with common methods of storytelling and communication, and which utilize techniques that are specifically relevant to each form of media discussed.

The material in this book is adapted from an undergraduate class of the same name, initially taught as a foundation course of the Interactive Media Arts (IMA) program at NYU Shanghai, from a syllabus developed by Roopa Vasudevan. The “playground” sections and additional exercises grew out of the extracurricular Communications Lab study session series, originated by IMA Fellow Jiwon Shin. A debt of gratitude is owed to the other faculty members who have taught the course since it was first offered in this incarnation: Eric Hagan, Owen Roberts, Tim Szetela, Ann Chen, Sarah Fay Krom, Wuwei Chen, Cici Liu, Nimrah Syed, Leon Lu, and JH Moon. The IMA Associate Fellows involved with the course (David Santiano and Jack B. Du) have also contributed to the development of workshops and auxiliary material through their assistance to students in the class. Thanks to Rune Madsen for his advice and help during the process of turning the course content into a textbook. Finally, a huge thank you to Marianne Petit and Matthew Belanger for founding IMA, and for their continued encouragement and support.
